Migrate e2e test from control-plane (#1113)
kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker: testing/e2e/provisioning/README.md

- Service Manager Secret

You must also have Kyma Environment Broker [configured](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker/tree/main#configuration) to use these Secrets in order to successfully create Kyma runtime.

## Details

### End-to-end provisioning test
The provisioning end-to-end test contains a broker client implementation which mocks Registry. It is an external dependency that calls the broker in the regular scenario. The test is divided into two phases:

1. Provisioning

    During the provisioning phase, the test executes the following steps:

    a. Sends a call to KEB to provision a Runtime. KEB creates an operation and sends a request to the Runtime Provisioner. The test waits until the operation is successful. It takes about 30 minutes on GCP and a few hours on Azure. You can configure the timeout using the environment variable.

    b. Creates a ConfigMap with **instanceId** specified.

    c. Fetches the DashboardURL from KEB. To do so, the Runtime must be successfully provisioned and registered in the Director.

    d. Updates the ConfigMap with **dashboardUrl** field.

    e. Creates a Secret with a kubeconfig of the provisioned Runtime.

>     f. Ensures that the DashboardURL redirects to the UUA login page. It means that the Kyma Runtime is accessible.

Author: Authorization I guess

2. Cleanup

    The cleanup logic is executed at the end of the end-to-end test or when the provisioning phase fails. During this phase, the test executes the following steps:

    a. Gets **instanceId** from the ConfigMap.

    b. Removes the test's Secret and ConfigMap.

>     c. Fetches the Runtime kubeconfig from the Runtime Provisioner and uses it to clean resources which block the cluster from deprovisioning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    c. Fetches the runtime kubeconfig from Runtime Provisioner and uses it to clean up resources that block the cluster from being deprovisioned.
```

    d. Sends a request to deprovision the Runtime to KEB. The request is passed to the Runtime Provisioner which deprovisions the Runtime.

    e. Waits until the deprovisioning is successful. It takes about 20 minutes to complete. You can configure the timeout using the environment variable.

Between the end-to-end test phases, you can execute your own test directly on the provisioned Runtime. To do so, use a kubeconfig stored in a Secret created in the provisioning phase.

> ### End-to-end suspension test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### End-to-End Suspension Test
```

> The end-to-end suspension test uses the **Trial** Service Plan ID to provision Kyma Runtime. Then, the test suspends and unsuspends the Kyma Runtime and ensures that it is still accessible after the process. The suspension test works similarly to the provisioning test, but it has two additional steps in the `Provisioning` phase:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The end-to-end suspension test uses the **Trial** service plan ID to provision Kyma runtime. Then, the test suspends and unsuspends the Kyma runtime and ensures it is still accessible after the process. The suspension test works similarly to the provisioning test, but it has two additional steps in the provisioning phase:
```

> The end-to-end suspension test uses the **Trial** Service Plan ID to provision Kyma Runtime. Then, the test suspends and unsuspends the Kyma Runtime and ensures that it is still accessible after the process. The suspension test works similarly to the provisioning test, but it has two additional steps in the `Provisioning` phase:

Author: Trial, like every plan, has its plan ID in KEB, which is passed during provisioning so that KEB can determine which plan should be provisioned. In this case, the subaccount doesn't matter.

> 1. Suspension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Suspension
```

Reviewer: I recommend this change to be consistent with the former suggestions.

>     After successfully provisioning a Kyma Runtime, the test sends an update call to KEB to suspend the Runtime. Then, the test waits until the operation is successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successfully provisioning a Kyma runtime, the test sends an update call to KEB to suspend the runtime. Then, the test waits until the operation is successful.
```

1. Unsuspension

>    After Runtime suspension succeeded, the test sends an update call to KEB to unsuspend the Runtime. Then, the test waits until the operation is successful. After that, the test ensures that the DashboardURL redirects to the UUA login page once again, which means that the Kyma Runtime is accessible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   After the runtime suspension succeeds, the test sends an update call to KEB to unsuspend it. Then, the test waits until the operation is successful. After that, the test ensures that the DashboardURL redirects to the UUA login page once again, which means the Kyma runtime is accessible.
```

> After successful suspension and unsuspension of the Kyma Runtime, the test proceeds to the `Cleanup` phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the Kyma runtime is successfully suspended and unsuspended, the test proceeds to the cleanup phase.
```

## Configuration

You can configure the test execution by using the following environment variables:

| Name | Description | Default value |
|-----|---------|:--------:|
| **APP_BROKER_URL** | Specifies the KEB URL. | None |
| **APP_PROVISION_TIMEOUT** | Specifies a timeout for the provisioning operation to succeed. | `3h` |
| **APP_DEPROVISION_TIMEOUT** | Specifies a timeout for the deprovisioning operation to succeed. | `1h` |

> | **APP_BROKER_PROVISION_GCP** | Specifies if a Runtime cluster is hosted on GCP. If set to `false`, it provisions on Azure. | `true` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **APP_BROKER_PROVISION_GCP** | Specifies if a runtime cluster is hosted on Google Cloud. If set to `false`, it is provisioned on Azure. | `true` |
```

| **APP_BROKER_AUTH_USERNAME** | Specifies the username for the basic authentication in KEB. | `broker` |
| **APP_BROKER_AUTH_PASSWORD** | Specifies the password for the basic authentication in KEB. | None |
| **APP_RUNTIME_PROVISIONER_URL** | Specifies the Provisioner URL. | None |
| **APP_RUNTIME_UUA_INSTANCE_NAME** | Specifies the name of the UUA instance which is provisioned in the Runtime. | `uua-issuer` |

> | **APP_RUNTIME_UUA_INSTANCE_NAMESPACE** | Specifies the Namespace of the UUA instance which is provisioned in the Runtime. | `kyma-system` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **APP_RUNTIME_UUA_INSTANCE_NAMESPACE** | Specifies the namespace of the UUA instance which is provisioned in the runtime. | `kyma-system` |
```

| **APP_TENANT_ID** | Specifies TenantID which is used in the test. | None |

> | **APP_DUMMY_TEST** | Specifies if test should success without any action. | `false` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **APP_DUMMY_TEST** | Specifies if the test should succeed without any action. | `false` |
```

| **APP_CLEANUP_PHASE** | Specifies if the test executes the cleanup phase. | `false` |
| **APP_CONFIG_NAME** | Specifies the name of the ConfigMap and Secret created in the test. | `e2e-runtime-config` |

> | **APP_DEPLOY_NAMESPACE** | Specifies the Namespace of the ConfigMap and Secret created in the test. | `kcp-system` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **APP_DEPLOY_NAMESPACE** | Specifies the namespace of the ConfigMap and Secret created in the test. | `kcp-system` |
```
